feat: add prober readme (#183)
abcxyz/pmap: docs/prober-and-monitoring.md

# Prober and monitoring

**PMAP is not a official Google product.**

Monitoring consists of two parts: prober and alerting.

## Prober

[Prober](../prober/) is a tool that constantly probes pmap services to check if
the services are up. It is built as a go binary and deployed to [cloud run

> job](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/overview/what-is-cloud-run#jobs), and is

Reviewer: Nits: `It is built as a go binary, deployed as [cloud run
job](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/overview/what-is-cloud-run#jobs), and 
triggered by [cloud scheduler](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler).`

Author: Added

triggered by [cloud scheduler](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler) to constantly
probing pmap services to check if the services are up.

> In each prober execution, the prober will cover two CUJ:

Reviewer: nits: CUJs

Author: fixed

effective way to automate PR authoring and bypass branch protection. As a result,
we seek the next closest journey - upload probing files to GCS bucket directly.

## Monitoring and Alert Policies

We also use [cloud run
metircs](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-run) to monitor
and send alert base prober job execution result. The metric used is:

- job/completed_execution_count

We also use [pubsub
metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-pubsub) to
monitor pubsub subsrciption and sent out alerts. Pubsub messages plays a vital role in pmap services, as they are used to trigger mapping and policy
services, and write processing result into bigquery. The metrics used are:

- subscription/oldest_unacked_message_age
- subscription/dead_letter_message_counts

## Installation

### Default setup

If you used the e2e module to set up pmap service, then you don't need to set up
prober separately. Otherwise, you can use the following terraform code to set up
your prober. All these variables are required.

```terraform
module "prober_and_monitoring" {
  source = "../modules/monitoring"

  project_id = var.project_id

>   prober_bucket_id           = "GCS bucket id for where objects are uploaded to."

Reviewer: prober_bucket_id           = "<YOUR_GCS_bucket_id_for_where_objects_are_uploaded to>" Just wanna make it clear that what variables that users need to provide.

Author: done

# Prober and monitoring

**PMAP is not a official Google product.**

Monitoring consists of two parts: prober and alerting.

## Prober

> [Prober](../prober/) is a go binary being deployed to [cloud run

Reviewer: Explain what prober does first and then talk about the technical details like cloud run job and cloud scheduler.

Author: Added

job](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/overview/what-is-cloud-run#jobs), and is
triggered by [cloud scheduler](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler) to constantly
probing pmap services to check if the services are up.

> In each prober job, the prober will upload a yaml file to

Reviewer: Prober doesn't upload ONE yaml file. You can explain it based on CUJ. One CUJ is policy and the other CUJ is resource mapping

Author: updated.

[gcs](https://cloud.google.com/storage), and query the bigquery table to see if
a corrosponding entry exists in bigquery table. The job is considered as success
on if the following requirements for both mapping and policy service are met:

1. The object is uploaded.
2. There is an entry in bigquery table that matches the traceID.

## Monitoring and Alert Policies

We monitor the pmap service with [native cloud run monitoring

> metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-run) and set up

Reviewer: Which metrics do we use here for cloud run, do you mean the `job/completed_execution_count`?

> the alert for all pubsub subscriptions base on the following metrics:

Reviewer: add pubsub metrics link

Author: added

- subscription/oldest_unacked_message_age
- subscription/dead_letter_message_counts

We also have alert base on the prober job execution result. The metrics used is:

- job/completed_execution_count

## Installation

You can use the provided Terraform module to setup Prober, or you can refer to
the provided module to build it from scratch.

```terraform
module "prober_and_monitoring" {
  source = "../modules/monitoring"

  project_id = var.project_id

>   prober_bucket_id           = "GCS bucket id for where objects are uploaded to."

Reviewer: Make it clear which variables are users that need to provide. Currently, it doesn't look clear.

Author: Updated

# Prober and monitoring

**PMAP is not a official Google product.**

Monitoring consists of two parts: prober and alerting.

## Prober

[Prober](../prober/) is a tool that constantly probes pmap services to check if
the services are up. It is built as a go binary and deployed to [cloud run
job](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/overview/what-is-cloud-run#jobs), and is
triggered by [cloud scheduler](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler) to constantly
probing pmap services to check if the services are up.

> In each prober job, the prober will cover two CUJ:
> 
> - Resource mapping (mapping service user journey)
> - Wipeout planning (policy service user journey)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In each prober execution, the prober will cover two CUJ:

- Import resource mapping to BigQuery from GCS
- Import policies to BigQuery from GCS
```

For each CUJ, prober will upload a yaml file to
[gcs](https://cloud.google.com/storage), and query the bigquery table to see if
a corrosponding entry exists in bigquery table. The job is considered as success
on if the following requirements for both mapping and policy service are met:

> 1. The object is uploaded.
> 2. There is an entry in bigquery table that matches the traceID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The object is uploaded.
2. There is an entry in bigquery table that matches the traceID.

### Limitation

Ideally the prober should cover the full user journey which includes checking in
resource mappings and policies in a GitHub repository. However, there is no
effective way to automate PR authoring and bypass branch protection. As a result,
we seek the next closest journey - upload probing files to GCS bucket directly.
```

## Monitoring and Alert Policies

We use [pubsub
metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-pubsub) to
monitor pubsub subsrciption and sent out alerts. The metrics used are:

- subscription/oldest_unacked_message_age
- subscription/dead_letter_message_counts

We also use [cloud run
metircs](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-run) to monitor
and send alert base prober job execution result. The metric used is:

> - job/completed_execution_count

Reviewer 2: Mention this before pubsub. And then mention why we additionally need to watch the pubsub metrics

Author: Added
